Oh and Park Dove
Phagocytosis
Non-vesicle related
secretion
Endosomal
escape
Endocytic
Endocytosis vesicle Exocytosis
Lysosome
secretion
Clathrin/caveolar Late
mediated endosome Lysosome
endocytosis
MVBs
Macropinocytosis Vesicle related
Pinocytosis
secretion
Figure 1 Schematic of endocytosis and exocytosis patterns of nanoparticles. Nanoparticles enter the cell via four types of pathway: clathrin/caveolar-mediated endo
phagocytosis, macropinocytosis, and pinocytosis. Nanoparticles exit the cell via three types of pathway: lysosome secretion, vesicle-related secretion, and non-vesiclesecretion.
Abbreviation: MVBs, multivesicular bodies.
molecules (eg, antibody, peptide, aptamer, etc) in order to a crucial role in determining their behavior because the
achieve efficient targeting to disease sites. directly related to types and compositions of biomole
Recently, many scientists have begun to investigate the attached to the nanoparticle surface. The surface che
effects of different sizes, shapes, and surface chemistries on tries on the nanoparticle surface are dynamically cha
endocytosis, toxicity, and gene regulation.8–10 However, aggre- because various biomolecules are attached and deta
gates (strongly bonded between nanoparticles) and agglom- based on their binding affinity to the surface. Pre-coati
erates (loosely bonded between nanoparticles or aggregates the nanoparticle surface with stabilizing molecules su
acting under weak forces, eg, van der Waals force) formed polyethylene glycol (PEG), deoxyribonucleic acid (D
by forces between nanoparticles and components in biologi- and albumin has been utilized to reduce ionic strength
cal media have not been fully considered to optimize their prevent nanoparticles from aggregation or agglomerati
physicochemical properties for biological applications. the biological solutions.12–14
It was recently suggested that the aggregates or agglomer- Additionally, individual nanoparticles can be natu
ates occur when the van der Waals attractive forces between coated with various biomolecules, forming the nanopar
nanoparticles are larger than the electrostatic repulsive forces protein complex, when solubilized in biological solu
(Figure 2).11 Aggregated or agglomerated forms of nanopar- The stability lifetimes of the nanoparticle–protein comp
ticles would behave differently within biological systems than range from hours to days in the biological solutions
would nanoparticles in their single form. Thus, size unifor- proteins covering the nanoparticle surface further preve
mity of nanoparticles should be considered when the effect individual nanoparticles from aggregation or agglomera
of physical and chemical properties of nanoparticles on their Because the formation of nanoparticle–protein comple
interactions with biological systems is examined. mainly determined by surface chemistries of the nan
In biological solutions, such as blood, saliva, and cell ticles, it is important to investigate which surface chemis
culture media, the surface chemistry of nanoparticles plays the most favorable to form the nanoparticle–protein com
52 submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Su
Dovepress

epress
ocytosis,
-related
ey are
ecules
emisanged
ached
ing of
uch as
DNA),
h and
ion in
urally
rticle–
utions.
plexes
s. The
ent the
ation.
exes is
noparstry is
mplex.
uppl 1)