Dovepress
Table 2 Endocytosis of nanoparticles
Nanoparticle Size (dm) Coating Surface
material charge
Spherical 14, 50, 74, and Citric acid Negative
AuNP 100 nm
16 nm PEG, TAT, and –
NLS peptides
Rod-shaped 40 × 14 nm and Citric acid Negative
AuNP 74 × 14 nm
Spherical and 15, 50, and PEO with either Negative
rod-shaped 15 × 50 nm hydroxyl, carboxyl, or positive
AuNP or amine group
SPION 6 nm Dextran, Negative
aminodextran, or positive
heparin, or DMSA
SWNT 130–660 nm DNA Negative
Polymeric NP 150–500 nm CMC or CH Negative
or positive
PLGA NP 260–300 nm PVA or vitamin Negative
E TPGS
Apoferritin 12 nm – –
Abbreviations: AuNP, gold nanoparticles; CH, chitosan hydrochloride; CM
deoxyribonucleic acid; NLS, nuclear localization sequence; PEG, polyethylene glyco
SPION, superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles; SWNT, single-walled carbon
polyethylene glycol 1000.
(FDA)-approved liposomes have been of particular interes
in the drug-delivery field due to their drug-loading capability and biocompatibility. Lipid nanoparticles with sizes of
20, 50, and 100 nm were taken up into the macrophages by
complement receptor-mediated phagocytosis.28 In addition
liposomes with sizes ranging from 100 to 2,000 nm were also
tested for their intracellular uptake in the macrophages.29 The
amount of liposomes taken up by the macrophages increased
with size over the range 100–1,000 nm, but the uptake rate
became constant with sizes over 1,000 nm. Size-dependen
phagocytosis of gold nanoparticles was also studied in many
research groups. It was reported that gold nanoparticles
with sizes below 100 nm were phagocytosed via scavenger
receptor-mediated phagocytosis.30 Tsai et al31 also demonstrated that gold nanoparticles with a size of 4 nm showed
the highest uptake in the macrophages based on the number
International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)

Endocytosis and exocytosis of nanoparticles in mammalian cells
Cell types Summary Reference
Human cervical 50 nm AuNPs had the highest 8,9,24
cancer cell cellular uptake
Human cervical PEG-coated AuNPs were not 46
cancer cell taken up at all by cells. TAT
peptides facilitated the direct
transfer of nanoparticles into
cells. NLS peptide-modified
AuNPs were found in the nucleus
Human cervical Rod-shaped nanoparticles with 8
cancer cell a higher aspect ratio showed
lower cellular uptake than those
with a lower aspect ratio
Human Nanorods were more efficiently 40
e macrophage taken up by macrophages than
were spherical NPs
Human cervical Dextran-coated NPs were not 47
e cancer cell taken up by cells. DMSA-coated
NPs displayed low cellular uptake.
Heparin and aminodextran-coated
NPs showed the highest cellular
uptake
Embryonic 660 nm and 130 nm SWNTs 26
fibroblast showed lower cellular uptake
than 430 nm and 320 nm SWNTs
Murine CH-coated NPs showed higher 32
e macrophage cellular uptake than
CMC-coated NPs
Human colon Cellular uptake of vitamin 25
adeno-carcinoma E TPGS-coated NPs was higher
cell than that of PVA-coated NPs
Human intestinal Apoferrin enters the cell via ferritin 36
epithelial cell receptor-mediated endocytosis
MC, carboxymethyl chitosan; dm, diameter; DMSA, dimercaptosuccinic acid; DNA,
ol; PEO, poly(ethylene oxide); PLGA, poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide); PVA, polyvinyl alcohol;
n nanotubes; TAT, HIV tat protein transduction domain; E TPGS, Vitamin E succinated
st of nanoparticles taken up per cell, compared with those
- sized 11, 19, 35, and 45 nm. The 4 nm gold nanoparticles
f exhibited the highest potency in inhibiting tumor necrosis
y factor (TNF)-α production related to TNR9-mediated innate
n, immune systems.
o Although the experimental results introduced here
e showed size-dependent cellular uptake of nanoparticles in
d many types of cells, the physical size would not be fully
e reflected when they meet the plasma membrane of the cell.
nt Most nanoparticles tend to aggregate in biological solutions,
y increasing their overall size. The results regarding the size
s effect would be influenced by nanoparticle aggregation
r before entering the cell. Thus, it should be tested whether
- nanoparticles prepared to study their size-dependent
d endocytosis retain their singularity in the biological media
r before they enter the cell.
submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com 55
Dovepress