Oh and Park Dove
cells using porous silicon microcarriers (Figure 6). In the faster than that of 30 nm nanoparticles, thus indicatin
exocytosis process, the amine- functionalized nanoparticles smaller nanoparticles are more favorable for exocy
enriched in the multivesicular bodies were incorporated Exocytosis of zwitterionic quantum dots was also exami
into the membrane vesicles in the intracellular region and human cervical cancer cells (Figure 7).45 Quantum dots
efficiently secreted from the cells 6 days after intracellular coated with D-penicillamine to improve colloidal sta
delivery. The exocytosis rate of 15 nm nanoparticles was in biological solutions. The size of D- penicillamine-c
A
Phagocytosis
Silicon
particle
Exocytosis
Iron oxide
nanoparticle
Endosomal escape
B
0.45
0.4
0.35 Silicon particles/15 nm SPIONs
0.3 Silicon particles/30 nm SPIONs
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0
2 3 5
Days
60 submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (S
Dovepress
)gµ(
nori
desotycoxE
6 7
Figure 6 (A) A scanning electron microscopy image of a macrophage showing endocytosis of porous silicon particles incorporated with iron oxide nanoparticles, intr
partitioning of the particles, endosomal escape of the particles, and exocytosis of the incorporated iron oxide nanoparticles. (B) Exocytosis of iron oxide nanop
Upper column shows transmission electron microscopy images of iron oxide nanoparticles released from the porous silicon carrier in a macrophage. Middle colum
transmission electron microscopy images of the released iron oxide nanoparticles located in the intracellular region of the macrophage 6 days after uptake of the
silicon particles. Bottom column shows that graph displayed time-dependent iron content in the supernatant and transmission electron microscopy images sho
internalized iron oxide nanoparticles were exocytosed by membrane vesicles.
Note: Reproduced with permission from Serda RE, Mack A, van de Ven AL, et al. Logic-embedded vectors for intracellular partitioning, endosomal escape, and ex
of nanoparticles. Small. 2010;6:2691–2700.44 Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

epress
ng that
ytosis.
ined in
s were
ability
coated
racellular
particles.
mn shows
e porous
owed the
xocytosis
Suppl 1)