Oh and Park Dovepress
cylinders, and cubes, and the cellular uptake of cylindrical macrophages, to evaluate their biosafety. However, compared
particles depends strongly on their aspect ratio. However, the with investigations of nanoparticle endocytosis, relatively
receptor-mediated endocytosis of gold nanorods was vastly little effort has been made to investigate the exocytosis of
decreased with increases in their aspect ratio. The comparison nanoparticles that may be responsible for their systemic
of intracellular uptake efficiency between rod-shaped and elimination and toxicity. Thus, the exocytosis of functionalspherical nanoparticles has also been investigated in many ized nanoparticles is reviewed in this section (Table 3).
types of cells.40 Interestingly, the results demonstrated that Many studies have compared the exocytosis of rodthe uptake of rod-shaped nanoparticles by macrophages was shaped nanoparticles with that of spherical nanoparticles.
more efficient than that of the spherical nanoparticles, while Chithrani and Chan9 examined differences in exocytosis
the spherical nanoparticles were taken up by cervical cancer phenomena between spherical and rod-shaped gold nanocells and human lung epithelial cells more efficiently than particles using various cell types (Figure 5). The surface of
were rod-shaped nanoparticles. gold nanoparticles was coated with transferrin proteins for
their receptor-mediated endocytosis. Importantly, this work
Nanoparticle exocytosis described that the cellular uptake could be considered as a
An understanding of the cellular uptake and organ dis- result of competition between the thermodynamic driving
tribution of nanoparticles is important when examining force for wrapping and the receptor diffusion kinetics. In
their targeting and therapeutic efficiency in drug-delivery that respect, the 50 nm gold nanoparticles showed the fastest
applications. Nanoparticles administered into the body are wrapping time, and therefore the receptor-ligand interaction
eventually cleared by organs in the MPS, such as the liver and could produce sufficient free energy to drive the nanoparticles
spleen. Nanoparticles remain in these organs for a long time into the cell. On the other hand, smaller nanoparticles with a
after being taken up by the macrophages, which increases slower wrapping time exhibited a faster rate of exocytosis. The
the likelihood of unintended acute or chronic toxicity. exocytosis rate of the 14 nm nanoparticles was much faster
Thus, it is also crucial to study exocytosis of the internal- than that of the 74 nm nanoparticles. In addition, the fraction
ized nanoparticles from many types of cells, particularly of the rod-shaped nanoparticles released outside the cells
Table 3 Exocytosis of nanoparticles
NP Size (dm) Coating Surface Cell types Summary Reference
material charge
Spherical 14, 50, and Transferrin Negative Human fibroblast, Smaller NPs show a faster 9
AuNP 74 nm cervical cancer, rate of exocytosis
brain tumor cells
17 nm KATWLPPR Negative Human endothelial cell In KATWLPPR peptide, 41
and KPRQPSLP exocytosis of NPs taken up by
peptide cells progressively increase until
6 hours. In KPRQPSLP peptides,
some exocytosed particles are re-taken
up by the cells after 4 hours
Rod-shaped 20 × 30, Transferrin Negative Human fibroblast, Nanorods with lower aspect ratios 9
AuNP 14 × 50, and cervical cancer, showed slower exocytosis.
7 × 42 nm brain tumor cells The exocytosis rate of
rod-shaped NPs was higher
than that of spherical NPs
Quantum dot 8 nm D-penicillamine Negative Human cervical Half-life of exocytosed fraction 45
cancer cells was 21 minutes and reached
saturation after 2 hours
PLGA NP 97 nm Bovine serum Negative Human arterial vascular Half-life of exocytosed fraction 42
albumin smooth muscle cells was 30 minutes
Polysacch 60 nm Hydroxycholine Positive Human bronchial Cholesterol depletion blocked 43
arides NP epithelial cell exocytosis of NPs
SPION 10 nm PEGylated amine Positive Murine macrophages SPIONs released from carriers 44
in the intracellular region were
exocytosed by membrane vesicles
Abbreviations: AuNP, gold nanoparticle; dm, diameter; PEG, polyethylene glycol; PLGA, poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide); SPION, superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles;
NPs, nanoparticles.
58 submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)
Dovepress