Dovepress
E > E E < E
ES vdW ES vdW
Au
NaCl
k
1
Au Au
k k
2 Protein Protein 2
E > E E > E
ES vdW ES vdW
Figure 2 Scheme of aggregation or agglomeration mechanism. The stabilizing
electrostatic forces (E ) on the surface of bare nanoparticles are neutralized by
ES
NaCl ions in the biological solution, causing the van der Waals forces (E ) to drive
vdW
formation of aggregation or agglomeration. The protein coating of nanoparticles can
reduce the aggregation or agglomeration.
Note: Reproduced with permission from Albanese A, Chan WC. Effect of gold
nanoparticle aggregation on cell uptake and toxicity. ACS Nano. 2011;5:5478–5489.11
Copyright © 2011 American Chemical Society.
Therefore, natural nanoparticle–protein complexes formed in
biological environments would allow us to study how individual nanoparticles interact with various types of cells.
When we study the endocytosis and exocytosis of nanoparticles, cells are treated with the nanoparticles in the culture
medium containing various serum proteins. Most of the
nanoparticles are first coated with the serum proteins and then
met with the plasma membrane of cells. If the nanoparticles
are already aggregated or agglomerated prior to binding to
the membrane, their endocytosis patterns would differ from
the endocytosis patterns of individual nanoparticles. The
degree of aggregation or agglomeration of the nanoparticles
Table 1 Classification of endocytosis pathways
Pathway
Specific pathway
Endocytosis Clathrin- and caveolin-mediated
Phagocytosis Mannose receptor-, complement
receptor-, Fcγ receptor-, and
scavenger receptor-mediated
Non-specific pathway
Macro-pinocytosis –
Pinocytosis –
International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)

Endocytosis and exocytosis of nanoparticles in mammalian cells
can be determined by measuring time-dependent change of
size and surface charge of the nanoparticles in the culture
medium. The (hydrodynamic) size has been mainly analyzed
using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and dynamic
light scattering (DLS) while the surface charge is determined
by zeta potential measurements. In particular, the ultraviolet–
visible (UV/Vis) spectrophotometry has also been used to
monitor the size of gold nanoparticles because their localized
surface plasmon resonance peaks can be shifted to a longer
wavelength by increasing their size.15 The DLS technique has
been the most widely used to monitor size change because
it directly measures hydrodynamic sizes of protein-coated
nanoparticles in the biological solution with nanometer
precision. Furthermore, the zeta potentials of protein-coated
nanoparticles mostly appeared as a negative surface charge
although the nanoparticles had different original surface
chemistries. It suggests that most proteins attached on
the nanoparticle surface seem to be negatively charged,
regardless of their content and composition, although they
may alter depending on the surface chemistries of the
nanoparticles. Thus, the content and composition of proteins
preferentially attached on the nanoparticle surfaces should
be studied for the cellular uptake and immune response of
nanoparticles.16,17
Nanoparticle endocytosis
Endocytosis mechanism
All types of cells in the body use the endocytosis process to
communicate with the biological environments. This process
is an energy-dependent process through which cells internalize ions and biomolecules.18 In particular, the cells internalize nutrients and signaling molecules to obtain energy
and interact with other cells, respectively. The endocytosis
pathways are typically classified into clathrin- and caveolaemediated endocytosis, phagocytosis, macropinocytosis,
and pinocytosis (Table 1). Clathrin- and caveolae-mediated
Definition
Energy-dependent process by which cells internalize biomolecules
Actin-dependent endocytic process by which professional
phagocytes (macrophages, dendritic cells and neutrophils) engulf
particles with sizes larger than 0.5 μm
Endocytic process by which cells internalize fluids and particles
together, and large vesicles (0.2–5 μm) are formed
Endocytic process by which cells absorb extracellular fluids, small
molecules and small vesicles (~100 nm) are formed
submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com 53
Dovepress