Oh and Park
endocytosis indicates receptor-mediated endocytosis. Many
types of cells use the clathrin- and caveolae-mediated
endocytosis pathways to internalize nanoscale materials,
including viruses and nanoparticles.19–21 These endocytosis
pathways are the most important pathways for the internalization of nanoparticles into cells because the nanoparticles
are directly coated with the plasma proteins when exposed
to physiological solutions. The phagocytosis pathway is
used when phagocytic cells internalize foreign materials
with sizes larger than 0.5 μm.16 The phagocytosis pathway
is actin-dependent and restricted to professional phagocytes,
such as macrophages, dendritic cells, and neutrophils. The
macropinocytosis pathway is a non-specific process to
internalize fluids and particles together into the cell, whereas
the pinocytosis pathway absorbs biological fluids from the
external environment of a cell.22 These pathways are very
important to translocate single nanoparticles with sizes
below 10 nm into the cell.
When nanoparticles are systemically administered into
the body, they are confronted with many types of cells. Since
nanoparticles have emerged as effective drug carriers to
treat complex diseases, it has become crucial to understand
nanoparticle endocytosis mechanisms. It is believed that
the endocytosis efficiency of nanoparticles is dependent on
the physicochemical properties, such as size, shape, and
surface chemistry, as well as cell type. Thus, interaction of
nanoparticles with cells depending on their physicochemical
properties is discussed in the following sections.
Factors affecting nanoparticle endocytosis
Nanoparticles circulating in the bloodstream happen to meet
and internalize into many types of cells through the plasma
membrane. The plasma membrane is a selectively permeable
membrane that transfers materials that are essential for sustaining the cell’s life. Naturally, materials necessary for the cell’s
life, such as ions and nano-sized proteins, can pass through
the lipid bilayer using specialized membrane-transport protein
channels.23 Thus, the plasma membrane of cells would select
the endocytosis pathways of nanoparticles depending on their
size, shape, and surface chemistry (Table 2).
Size
Size-dependent cellular uptake of nanoparticles has been
extensively investigated in various cell lines because the
nanoparticle size has been known to be a key determinant of
the uptake pathways. Many critical in vivo functions of nanoparticles, such as circulation time, targeting, internalization,
and clearance, depend on their size. Thus, the cellular
54 submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com
Dovepress

Dovepress
uptake of nanoparticles with various sizes is reviewed in
this subsection.
Much interest has focused on understanding sizedependent internalization of nanoparticles in cancer cells
and fibroblasts. The cellular uptake of gold nanoparticles
of various sizes was studied in human cervical cancer cells
(Figure 3).8,9,24 Researchers at the University of Toronto,
Canada, demonstrated that uptake mechanism and saturation
concentration of nanoparticles was dependent on their size.
The 50 nm gold nanoparticles showed the most efficient cellular uptake compared with other sizes. The cellular uptake
of polystyrene (PS) nanoparticles of various sizes was also
tested on a human colon adenocarcinoma cell line.25 The
PS nanoparticles with a size of 100 nm were taken up into
the cells more efficiently than those with sizes of 50, 200,
500, and 1,000 nm. The internalization efficiency of the
PS nanoparticles with a size of 50 nm was the lowest of all
sizes. These two studies suggest that the patterns of cellular
uptake could also vary according to nanoparticle material
type. Although different cancer cell lines were used for each
experiment, the stiffness of nanoparticles could affect their
cellular uptake. Stiffer nanoparticles would interact tightly
with the plasma membrane of cell, thereby causing rapid
endocytosis.
Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) coated with
DNA molecules were used to investigate length-dependent
cellular uptake.26 The results demonstrated that long
(660 ± 40 nm) and short (130 ± 18 nm) SWNTs have lower
uptake efficiencies in the fibroblasts than SWNTs with average lengths of 430 ± 35 nm and 320 ± 30 nm. The SWNTs
with an average length of 320 ± 30 nm had the greatest
uptake pattern.
In addition to endocytosis in non-phagocytic cells,
much attention has recently been paid to understanding
interactions between nanoparticles and phagocytic cells
such as macrophages, because it could be relevant to the
design of nanoparticles to avoid the immune system, thus
increasing their target efficiency. Nanoparticles with sizes
larger than 0.5 μm have been known to enter phagocytic
cells via phagocytosis pathways. Polymeric microspheres
with diameters of 2–3 μm exhibited the maximal phagocytosis rate.27 Interestingly, this size range coincides with
the general size of the bacteria that are the most common
targets of the MPS.
On the other hand, there have been some efforts to examine size-dependent phagocytosis of nanoparticles smaller than
0.5 μm. Among many types of nanoparticles, lipid-based
nanoparticles, including US Food and Drug Administration
International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)