Dovepress
2 6
Time (hours)
absorption of proteins in blood on their surface.34 In addition,
the uptake efficiency of PEGylated nanoparticles is closely
related to PEG grafting density, which can determine the
protein absorption.17 That is, high PEG-grafting density
inhibits protein adsorption on the nanoparticle surface in the
biological solution. Interaction between nanoparticles and
biological media can further lead to surface modification that
eventually affects their phagocytosis through the attachment
of complementary proteins and immunoglobulins.35
Recently, there has been much effort to utilize biological nanomaterials in drug delivery applications, due to their
biocompatibility and natural cell-binding ability. Apoferritin,
a demineralized form of ferritin, was suggested as a drug
carrier because it has been known to enter the cell via ferritin receptor-mediated endocytosis.36,37 Apoferritin can be
further utilized for a switchable delivery system because
the endocytosis can be reversibly inhibited in various ways.
Additionally, the internal cavity of apoferritin can be used to
International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)
dezilanretnI
)IFM(
selcitrap
A Se
20
Macrophages
THP-1
15
10
5
0
0.5 1 3
2 6
Time (hours)
dezilanretnI
)IFM(
selcitrap
B Se
10
Macrophages
8 THP-1
6
4
2
0
0.5 1 3
Figure 4 Kinetics of cellular uptake of negatively (–COOH) (A) and positively (–N
Confocal fluorescence images (right) were taken after 2 hours’ incubation with the indi
were tagged with green dyes.
Note: Reproduced with permission from Lunov O, Syrovets T, Loos C, et al. Differen
monocytic cell line. ACS Nano. 2011;5:1657–1669.33 Copyright © 2011 American Chem
Abbreviation: MFI, mean fluorescence index.

Endocytosis and exocytosis of nanoparticles in mammalian cells
erum
Macrophages THP-1
10 µm
PS-COOH PS-COOH
erum
Macrophages THP-1
10 µm
PS-NH PS-NH
2 2
NH2) (B) charged polymeric nanoparticles in macrophages and monocytes (THP-1).
icated nanoparticles. Cell membrane was stained with red dyes and the nanoparticles
ntial uptake of functionalized polystyrene nanoparticles by human macrophages and a
mical Society.
load therapeutic molecules through channels on the protein
shell. Other virus- and protein-based biomaterials also have
great potential to serve as biocompatible nano-platforms in
the drug-delivery system.38
Shape
As mentioned in previous subsections, size and surface
properties of nanoparticles play crucial roles in controlling the interaction between nanoparticles and biological
systems. The nanoparticle shape might also be important
in determining biological behaviors of nanoparticles. For
example, it has been reported that bacteria with various
shapes, such as rods, spirals, and ellipsoids, have implications for macrophage recognition.16 These shapes can directly
affect the endocytosis pattern of bacteria. Recent experiments have demonstrated a shape effect of the nanoparticle
on cellular uptake.8,39 Nanoscale rods exhibit the highest
uptake in human cervical cancer cells, followed by spheres,
submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com 57
Dovepress