Oh and Park
A B
50 nm
C
12
Size (nm)
50 nm
Surface chemistry
Surface chemistry (or surface charge) of nanoparticles can
be determined by the chemical composition on the nanoparticle surface. The surface charge of nanoparticles can affect
their efficiency and the pathway of cellular uptake, because
biological systems consist of numerous biomolecules with
various charges. Therefore, the charge of biomolecules covering the nanoparticle surface can influence the endocytosis
patterns of nanoparticles. In this subsection, the effect of
nanoparticle surface chemistries on the endocytosis pattern
is discussed. For polymeric nanoparticles, carboxymethyl
chitosan-grafted nanoparticles as negatively charged nanoparticles, and chitosan hydrochloride-grafted nanoparticles as
positively charged nanoparticles, were used to test their cellular
uptake efficiency.32 The different surface charges significantly
affected their uptake by macrophages. The positively charged
56 submit your manuscript | www.dovepress.com
Dovepress
rep
selcitraponan
dlog
fo
oN
)2−mn
3−01(
ezis
elcisev
8
4
0
14 30 50 74 100
Figure 3 (A) Schematic representation of gold nanoparticles. (B) Transmission electron mi
electron microscope images of the gold nanoparticles entrapped in cellular vesicles. Grap
Note: Reproduced with permission from Chithrani BD, Ghazani AA, Chan WC. Dete
cells. Nano Lett. 2006;6:662–668.8 Copyright © 2007 American Chemical Society.

Dovepress
14 nm 30 nm
74 nm 100 nm
14 nm 30 nm
74 nm 100 nm
icroscope images of citrate-coated gold nanoparticles with various sizes. (C) Transmission
ph showing the number of the gold nanoparticles per vesicle diameter.
ermining the size and shape dependence of gold nanoparticle uptake into mammalian
nanoparticles exhibited a higher phagocytic uptake than did the
negatively or neutrally charged nanoparticles. Moreover, when
the uptake efficiency of the positively charged nanoparticles
was compared with that of the negatively charged, neutrally
charged, and PEGylated nanoparticles, the positively and
negatively charged nanoparticles were internalized more rapidly than the neutrally and PEGylated charged nanoparticles.
It was also demonstrated that negatively charged polymeric
nanoparticles with diameters of around 100 nm were more
efficiently phagocytized by macrophages than positively
charged nanoparticles (Figure 4).33 Cellular uptake was also
greater in the macrophages than in the monocytes.
Furthermore, the surface functionalization with PEG,
poloxamer, and poloxamine polymers prevented phagocytosis because these polymers protect the nanoparticles
from ionic strength, promote particle dispersion, and reduce
International Journal of Nanomedicine 2014:9 (Suppl 1)